so every sport has some sort of tech
involved in the show somewhere now right
like tennis has the famous Replay in or
out graphic American football has the
digital line of skirmish we all know and
football football has this sweet new
offsides graphic and golf has this the
shot Tracer so some of you who've been
subscribed for a long time already know
this but many of you also don't I am a
golfer I've been golfing for a long time
longer than I've been doing like
anything else my first ever Youtube
upload before any other Tech videos was
a couple of golf videos believe it or
not I'm back nice B enjoy but I do still
watch golf all the time and of course
after doing that Formula 1 video my
brain is in Tech in sports mode and I'm
realizing the amount of Technology
hidden in plain sight on a golf course
that makes a broadcast possible is
actually insane there's cameras there's
also lasers there's radar lar optical
fiber cables there's volunteers carrying
Samsung phones with a custom app
installed on them there's so much
happening here but why and when you
think about it there's really one good
reason for all this stuff going on which
is golf is hard to watch for a lot of
the same reasons that Formula 1 is hard
to watch like this sport it's not just
like it's not one basketball court where
all the actions happening in the same
place at the same time it's 18
different courts all spread around
hundreds of yards away from each other
all with different action happening on
them at the same time with a tiny little
white ball flying through the air that's
like impossible to see so when you're
not physically at the golf course
there's basically three ways to watch
golf each requiring more technology than
the last there's the TV broadcast
there's the website portal and then
there's the Vision Pro
so the TV broadcast is the most simple
right but there's still this Flagship
problem of the golf ball being tiny and
basically invisible as soon as it gets
hit and so that problem was solved with
the shot Tracer now a lot of people
don't actually know how this gets made
like it's not a computer drawing a trace
of like where it kind of sees the golf
ball going it's it's not an AI
prediction of anything it's actually
very precisely measured accurately so if
you've ever been around a golf course or
looking at a broadcast during a
tournament you'll notice there are a ton
of these these little towers here well
they're not so little towers sometimes
too but these towers are strategically
placed all the way around the golf
course behind the tea boxes around the
fairways and behind the greens so that
they're covering the entire golf course
and every single one of these towers has
three things a camera a trackman and a
wireless transmitter so this trackman
right here this is the special thing
this is the radar system used to measure
the exact launch speed and angle and
spin rates of the golf ball the instant
it's contacted by a golf club and then
here's the thing once that gets measured
instantly the computers know everything
about how that golf ball is going to fly
through the air as soon as you touch the
ball how high it'll go how far it'll go
how much it'll turn and all that will be
even more useful in the next level but
for this TV broadcast from the launch
data they can immediate project a shot
shaped line overlaid onto the hole using
the angle from the fix camera that's
sitting right behind the T box and
immediately get that data back to the
broadcast trucks now the crazy part is
if you look around enough you will see
these things like all over the golf
course they're hidden in plain sight
basically some of them are right next to
the golfers at the t-box some of them
are actually strapped up to TV towers
and it's not just the t- boxes the
trackman launch monitors actually face
backwards from behind the green too so
they can pick up launch data from all
kinds of shots shots from the Fairway
it's super impressive and then all these
towers that I got to check out turns out
they're all completely battery powered
and can last for an entire day of a
tournament and then also this skirt
around the bottom is actually covered in
solar panels too so they're basically
feeding into themselves and they never
run out of power during the day all of
this is to just give us the shot Tracer
that makes golf on TV dramatically
easier to
[Music]
watch now sometimes you can't always
watch golf on TV you know maybe you're
at work or maybe you're somewhere else
where you can't be in front of a TV but
you got another tab open just so you can
keep an eye on the PGA Tour website so
you can see what's happening lucky for
you they have built this thing out so
the website now has this entire realtime
play-by-play portal where you can jump
around to any hole and see exactly
what's happening when it happens and
then when the tournament is happening
every shot is updated in real time but
what I didn't realize until seeing it in
person is just how far they go to
deliver all of these shots as soon as
possible so check this out so there's a
few more pieces of tech on the golf
course that you should know about first
of all there are these on Fairway
cameras covering the whole course
basically they're like that tower that I
showed you on the T boox earlier but it
doesn't need any track man on it it's
just cameras and they're pointed
everywhere and then there are also
volunteers stationed alongside every
hole with laser rangefinders and tablets
so they've got this nice little setup to
be able to quickly tag a ball as soon as
it lands and then upload its exact
location so here's how it all works
ready so a golfer is up on the T boox
they're about to hit their first shot
you've loaded up the website remember
how I said those radar trackers can
compute exactly what the ball is going
to do the second the club impacts the
ball well okay perfect so that data is
shot over to the shotlink trailer in the
parking lot where they have the feeds
from all the cameras all over the golf
course and this is the crazy part the
second the shot gets hit that system is
already projecting a polygon on the
course where it thinks that ball is
going to end up you can actually see it
right here outlined in yellow then a few
seconds later boom the ball lands and
rolls right into that box it's so sick
so then the volunteer with the laser and
the tablet will laser the ball and get
its exact location just to confirm that
upload it boom it immediately shows up
on the Tour website literally within 3
seconds of the ball coming to rest it is
updated it's pretty impressive and the
craziest part to me was seeing this
system at work like predicting where the
ball is going to land again before it
even lands as soon as they hit the ball
it is accounting for obviously the
launch angle the spin the speed but also
things like the wind the temperature the
humidity your elevation and all of that
stuff to give you that polygon for
probability for where the ball is
probably going to end up now obviously
it won't be perfect especially if the
ball does something unexpected like hits
a tree or a bird or something but that's
why you have the volunteer down on the
course with the laser just to finalize
everything and hit submit and they told
me it actually calibrates itself over
time this system so every 10 shots it
dials in even more and I actually saw
that happen in real time I watched more
shots during the the course of the day
some of the earlier shots would be just
slightly off and then some of the shots
later in the day would be fixed and
they'd be nearly perfect and then
there's actually one more piece of tech
out there on the golf course that I
haven't even mentioned yet and that is
following every single group of golfers
as they're playing the tournament you'll
be able to spot one person holding a
phone and at this tournament The
Travelers they were pretty easy to find
cuz they were all wearing pink shirts so
what are they doing exactly you might be
asking well I got my hands on exactly
what they're doing turns out every
single one of them is holding the same
phone it's a Samsung Galaxy X cover 6 a
pretty ruggedized phone which makes
sense for outdoors but what they're
doing is keeping official scores for the
online scorecard and their fingerprint
is in charge of closing the bedding
windows for people who are online
gambling basically in real time on
specific shots so they literally hold
their fingerprint down on this screen
until the moment a player starts their
back swing then they release it to close
the bedding window here you can see them
doing exactly that wait for the player
to hit wait patiently and then there it
goes the shot gets hit and then whoever
is betting on that specific shot whether
it's hitting the Fairway or hitting the
green or whatever that's the moment it's
locked
in so you remember when the Vision Pro
first came out there were all those
mockups of all these cool apps and
experiences that people wanted to happen
I talked about how the ideas for the
apps were ahead of the apps themselves
one of them was Formula 1 Somebody built
this whole dream F1 watching setup with
like the broadcast up top and then this
little mini map of the cars on the track
down below it looked so sick but it
turns out that that wasn't real it was
just a mockup that no one had actually
made yet except for the PGA Tour turns
out because the PGA Tour is Apple Vision
Pro app it's insane it's the same idea
and it actually works so they've got the
leaderboard up top a broadcast feed and
some other things if you want but then
at the bottom in real time time you can
have a mini map of any hole on the
course with an extremely accurate map of
the hole that's stitched together from
yes an entire team of drones that fly
over the course and map it out a couple
of days before the tournament all right
so once they've got all the Drone
footage imported and stitched it all
together this is the result so this is
literally on their computer but this is
a flyover of this is the 10th hole 456 y
par 4 and right away you can see tons of
details there's all the other houses on
the property there's all the obvious
things like the tea boxes and the
Fairway but you see every single tree
there's the iconic tree in the middle of
the Fairway you keep going you can see
the cart path you can see where the hole
is on the green you can see even things
like the TV Tower and you flip it around
you can see where the stands are I'm
behind a tree you can see everything so
this is as close of a representation of
that hole as you can possibly get for
all 18 holes and since it's so detailed
you can look at the green and see how
tilted it is this is a pretty flat green
so there's not a whole lot of elevation
change but they've got these little I
mean this looks like 2K you can see the
little rolling meters for where it rolls
off it's it's extremely accurate so 18
of those so yeah as this tournament is
actually happening this is what it looks
like it's basically a combination of all
the Technologies we've seen through this
whole experience level one two and now
three you see the broadcast and all
Glory you see the scoreboard getting
updated in real time and then you have
this full overhead view of any hole on
the course that you can actually look
around and watch the shot flying through
the air and these are the actual shot
shapes like if a player hits a low shot
it will be a low shot in this visual if
they hit a draw or a fade or a high shot
it shows all of that too because the
launch monitor knows all of this stuff
so this feels like a really futuristic
way to watch golf I thought it was super
cool now again similar to Formula 1
they're at a new location every single
week for every new tournament so it is a
massive logistical challenge to put all
this stuff onto the course and get it
all together matter of fact just seeing
everything they have to bring in from
the dozens of trailers to the 10 to 20
miles of fiber running all over the golf
course to the Drone footage mapping out
every hole and of course the grand
stands and the scoreboards and the
trackman towers and the TV towers all
over the golf course like they can't do
this for every single tournament but
they do try for as many of the larger
high-profile events as possible so it
was sick to watch this event in person
and then go back and see how golfers hit
certain shots and how it looks on the
broadcast and then in the Vision Pro and
just to get to see how it's represented
for people who aren't there because for
every sport the broadcast is so
important it's really only 1% or less of
the people actually watching are the
ones there in person but basically for
everyone else they get to know the sport
through the broadcast through the media
and that's what's so cool about it and
that's always evolving over time I don't
know if you remember uh maybe 30 years
ago the NHL tried something interesting
with a glowing Puck this was like the
mid 90s they tried to make it easier for
people to watch the broadcast and follow
the puck around it was well-intentioned
but obviously pretty tough execution
even though it's still like kind of cool
for 30 years ago
nowadays the tech is so refined and so
precise that you can track a tiny white
ball through the air over three football
fields at a time within a couple yards
of margin of error and it is definitely
an improvement all this of course at the
end of the day is to put on a great show
make a great followable broadcast and
for the golfers to go out and compete
and to try to win the tournament and at
the end of the season to try to win this
the FedEx Cup the precious end of the
year prize and I touched it I touched
the FedEx Cup pretty sick so yeah shout
out again to the PJ tour for making this
video possible for pulling back the rope
and letting us see the behind the scenes
nobody gets to see this stuff but now
you have thanks for watching catch you
in the next one peace